[faint beeping]
[deep breathing]
[ethereal music playing]
[Mary] Eye movement detected.
[zipper creaking]
[whirring]
[choking]
[coughing. gagging]
[groans]
[Mary] What is two plus two?
[coughing]
[Mary] Incorrect.
-Cognition assessment
-[coughs]
-[Mary] What is two plus two?
-[teeth clacking]
-Incorrect.
-[grunts]
You have been
in an induced coma.
[breathes deeply]
-[hair trimmer whirring]
-You may experience
-some memory loss
-[spits]
difficulty speaking.
[yelps]
-[thudding]
-[groans]
[Mary] Body movement detected.
For your own safety.
please return
to the medical platform.
[groaning]
Where am I?
[Mary]
Please remember muscle function
has not yet been restored.
-[whirring]
-[objects clattering]
[man] People!
Hello?
[music fades]
[breathing deeply]
[grunts]
-[thudding]
-[grunting]
[intriguing music playing]
[grunts]
[panting]
Where am I?
[breath trembling]
[music fades]
Red leather. yellow leather.
[blabbers]
Why is there
an atomic resolution
scanning electron microscope?
Why do I know that?
Am I smart?
[soft intriguing music playing]
[birds chirping]
Hello?
[Mary]
Please record video diary.
[man] No.
Can I speak
to the person in charge?
[blabbers]
The. uh. captain.
[Mary]
Captain Yáo. Li-Jie. Deceased.
Yeah. where. um.
are the living people?
-[grunts]
-[Mary] Dr. Ryland Grace.
End of manifest.
I can't be
the only person here. Right?
[Mary] Pilot detected.
-[systems powering up]
-No! No. No-No. Not the pilot.
Uh
Call. uh. Houston.
[Mary] Unknown command.
Operation Go Home in effect.
[Mary] Invalid operation.
[trackball clicking]
That's the sun! There it is.
So. what are we.
like. Neptune-ish?
Let's crank up the radio
and call Earth.
[Mary] Current
transmission time to Earth
is 11 years. 10 months.
14 days and 6 hours.
No. Nope. You're wrong.
I need a map.
Oh.
Uh
That's so far.
That's really far. Uh
[trackball continues spinning]
[sighs]
[softly] That's not our sun.
[in normal voice]
That's not our sun.
[intriguing
electronic music playing]
[thudding]
Where is the fuel?
Wait.
[music fades]
[uneasy music playing]
[inaudible]
[riveting music playing]
[reporter] We are just
minutes away from the fly-by
through the Petrova line
near Venus.
So. what can you tell us
about the ArcLight probe?
What do we expect to find?
[Dr. Browne] The image we see
will be coming
from the onboard microscope.
Um Oh. my God.
Sorry. I have to go now.
[humming]
[in sing-song voice]
Sound waves are physical.
And at different frequencies.
they make different
[high-pitched] pattern--
No. pattern--
They make different
[low-pitched] patt--
Olivia. can you
help me out? There we go!
[beat droning]
Whoa!
Yeah.
Are they really eating the sun?
The space dots?
That is a great question.
uh. Rekha.
And I'd be curious what
your parents think about that.
I'm not sure
it should come from me.
Hey!
Who wants to play a game of
the bean bag is lava!
[students] Lava! Lava! Lava!
What is the speed
of light. Olivia?
Uh
It's melting
your hands. Olivia!
186.000 miles per second!
Oh! Give her
a round of applause.
That is awesome.
What is the Petrova line?
[chuckles sheepishly] Pass!
You can't pass!
I just did.
[students] Lava! Lava! Lava!
Come on. guys.
Two years ago
a radio telescope enthusiast
named Irina Petrova.
she noticed
that there was a streak
of infrared light
from the sun to Venus.
And that is now known
as the Petrova line.
That's it.
That's the dots?
They think so.
What dots?
[Grace] These dots.
They sent a probe
up to the Petrova line.
and this is what they found.
Are they eating the sun?
They seem to be
dimming the sun a tiny.
teeny-weeny. little bit.
So. no big whoop.
It's a small whoop.
It's a small-to-medium whoop.
Over the next 30 years.
the Earth could
cool maybe 10
to 15 degrees.
So it is a big whoop.
I heard
that all the crops will die.
the economy will free-fall.
and half the Earth
will die of starvation.
-[overlapping chatter]
-Well
We're all gonna die!
Yeah. it's true.
[Grace]
You're forgetting something.
Guys. guys! That's if
that were to happen. Right?
They're gonna figure this out.
Right now. the best minds
in the entire world are on it.
[music ends abruptly]
[hair trimmer whirring]
-[country song playing]
-[whirring]
[Mary] Good morning. Dr. Grace.
[Grace] I'm up!
[crunching]
[inaudible]
[country song
continues playing]
-[door rattles]
-[woman] Knock. knock.
[song ends]
Who's there?
Not good at jokes.
[Grace] Not good
at jokes who? [chuckles]
Dr. Grace?
Maybe.
Eva Stratt. I'm with
the Petrova Task Force.
I need your help.
Me.
Did you write this?
Oh.
I'm interested
in this section here.
-Uh
-Page 31.
"The Goldilocks Zone
Is For Idiots:
Why Everyone
Is Wrong About Life."
That was a long time ago.
Do you stand by what you wrote?
I was fired
for standing by what I wrote.
You were fired
for calling the leading
scholar in your field
"a staggering waste of carbon"
at the UNESCO conference
in Denmark.
You heard about that. huh?
Look.
I don't know what this is.
but. uh. I think I'm not s--
That's lava.
-It's not.
-Okay.
No one in your field
wants anything to do with you
because you refused
to back down
from a very unpopular view.
and I can give you a chance
to prove them all wrong.
Uh Kevin. no running.
[Kevin] I'm not.
Well. joke's on them because
I don't even care. So
[Stratt] I think you do care.
You're running away
because you're scared.
[Grace] No. I'm not.
[Stratt]
Do you still believe water
is unnecessary
for life to evolve?
[Grace] Uh
Look. there is nothing magical
about hydrogen and oxygen.
Water is required
for life on Earth. sure.
But a completely
different planet
might have completely
different conditions.
I don't know why
that makes me such a nut.
I need you to come with us.
Sorry.
I didn't catch your name.
Carl.
-Carl. Hi.
-[Stratt] Dr. Grace.
Petrova line samples
splashed down last night.
I want you to tell me
what they are. how they work.
I am a teacher
at Grover Cleveland Middle.
And you have a doctorate
in molecular biology.
And I ride a bike to work.
and it's not for exercise.
So I'm sure there are thousands
of other people
who are better--
It survives
on the surface of the sun.
Does that sound like
a water-based lifeform to you?
The sun's really dying.
isn't it?
Yeah.
[machinery whirring]
Is all of this necessary?
[switch clicks]
[Stratt] Yes.
Please analyze
the Petrova sample.
[Grace] Um
[Stratt] Just one thing.
The entire room
is filled with argon.
Just try not to rip your suit.
[Grace] Uh
Am I expendable?
Is that why you want me?
That's not the only reason.
It's almost like
you don't care if I die.
[chuckles nervously]
Hold on.
You have to talk about it?
The consensus here
is that it would be preferable
if you did not die.
[sarcastically] Thanks. guys.
[soft intriguing music playing]
-Oh.
-[container whirring]
[whirring]
Welcome to Earth.
[exhales sharply]
-[switch clicks]
-[Stratt] Are they alive?
[Grace] They're moving.
[Stratt] So they're alive.
[sputters] Yes. they're moving.
but that could be
for many reasons.
What are they made of?
It's gonna take a long ti--
It took like 200 years
to figure out
how bacteria works. so
Please do it faster.
[Grace] I'm just going through
the whole light spectrum here.
Wow!
You're not gonna believe this.
Nothing happened.
I can't see into these buggers.
Amazing.
X-rays. microwaves.
gamma rays. visible light.
Nothing!
Ooh. ooh. ooh. I've been
dying to do this all day!
[music stops]
[music resumes]
It's a cell!
It's a cell.
Wake up! It's a cell!
[Grace] It's a tiny alien cell.
You guys! [chuckles]
Applause.
[Grace] Guys!
This is first contact!
With life outside of the--!
-[music stops]
-Uh-oh.
Oh. it died.
-[switch clicks]
-[Stratt] What?
This is great news.
Now we can find out
what they're made of.
[music resumes]
You guys fired up?
Yes!
Right?
Carbon.
Oxygen.
Hydrogen.
-[music stops]
-Oh.
[somber music playing]
It's made
[music fades]
almost entirely
of water.
-All right.
-[Grace exhales]
Sorry
if I overreacted in there.
Just. uh. realizing I was wrong
about the only original idea
I ever had.
Yeah. What else did you learn?
They give off infrared light
when they move.
[Stratt] Mm-hm.
Like. so much.
I don't know how
they store all that energy.
But. uh. their wavelength is
exactly the Petrova frequency.
The light is how they move.
Yeah. they consume
the sun's energy.
and then they expel it
for propulsion.
They toot to scoot basically.
Why did it go to Venus?
I don't know.
Okay. We'll tell you.
What?
I have 347 other biologists
in 21 countries
mobilizing as we speak.
So thank you for your help.
I'm glad you didn't die.
Let's pack this up.
-[doors whirring]
-[man] Pack up!
-[indistinct radio chatter]
-[helicopter hovering]
[Grace] That's it?
-That's it. Carl?
-Talk to her.
You're taking all the stuff?
At the school you said
there were thousands of people
more qualified than you. so
-I was being modest.
-[Stratt] I don't need modest.
I need people
who think they're right
when everyone else
thinks they're wrong.
I need people
who piss other people off.
That's me!
Do you want to be on a project?
If you
If you think I can help. then
Just answer the question.
I wanna help the world.
I left you three dots.
Just three. huh?
Plus the one you killed.
I would take the three.
-[Stratt] Yes?
-I'll take the dots.
Get to work. Dr. Grace.
The world is counting on you.
[ethereal chorus vocalizing]
[inhales sharply]
[music fades]
[Grace] Hey. Carl?
[Carl] This is Carl.
[Grace] Imagine for a second
that you're
an interstellar microorganism.
[Carl] I'm not doing that.
[Grace] Why would you
leave the sun and go to Venus?
Why not stop
at Mercury? It's closer.
Maybe fresh air?
[Grace] Venus's atmosphere
is mostly CO2.
Maybe that's fresh air to them.
You don't know what
these little space dots like.
[Grace] Hey. Carl?
Do we have an expense account?
We don't.
[purses lips]
[sighs deeply]
But I do.
[afro-pop dance song playing]
[indistinct announcement
over PA]
[Carl] All right.
I got something for you.
[scanner beeping]
Thank you.
-Do you have a coupon?
-We don't need a coupon.
-We're the government.
-Which government?
All of 'em.
So this box is Venus.
The box is Venus.
It's set to emit the same
infrared light frequency
as Venus's CO2 atmosphere.
So if the dots move
when you turn the lights on.
that means
they're looking for CO2.
Thus proving
the Carl Hypothesis.
[Carl] Sick.
[drill whirring]
Sorry.
-[Grace] All right.
-[Carl] All right.
[Grace] You ready?
Uh-oh.
Why you saying "Uh-oh"?
[Grace] The Astrophage
moved off the slide.
[Carl] Huh?
We lost them.
[Carl] What do you mean.
we lost them? Go get them.
If I open the door
in the light.
they're gonna escape. and then
we'll lose them forever.
At least now
they're in the box.
So we'll just
turn the lights off.
But there'll still be light.
It's gotta be total darkness.
Okay. so just put this box
in another box.
Nice.
[whirring]
[Grace]
Go ahead and close it. Over.
[Carl] I can hear you.
[drill whirring]
[Grace] Entering phase two.
I'm in.
[Carl on radio]
Please report. Over.
[Grace] There's one.
There's two!
Come on! Get the third one.
[Grace] Got sample three.
The Three Musketeers.
The Three Stooges.
Uh-oh.
[Carl] What? What?
[Grace] Are you sitting down?
No. I'm standing
like a grown man.
[Grace]
'Cause there's a fourth.
What?
[Grace] We're fathers. Carl.
[Carl] Now I'm sitting down.
[line ringing]
[Stratt] Stratt.
Carl and I made a baby.
[Stratt] What?
We figured out
how Astrophage breeds.
[thudding]
[Stratt] Don't move.
Wheels up.
-[tires screeching]
-[Grace] You know. Carl.
when Stratt said
she was sending a jet.
I thought you meant
like a PJ or something.
-[Carl] I know.
-[officer] Take this.
Been a long time
since I've taken a pill
from a stranger
without knowing what it was.
[engine roaring]
Stop! Stop!
[grunting]
[jet thuds]
[Stratt] Dr. Grace.
how was your flight?
[indistinct chatter]
-[Grace] Where are we?
-[Stratt] The ocean.
The Astrophage reproduction.
Can you do it at scale?
Oh. in theory. you just get
a bunch of elbow-shaped pipe.
put sunlight in one end--
Excuse me for a second.
[Grace retching]
-Write it down.
-[Aide] Yes. ma'am.
[Grace clears throat]
and IR light and CO2
in the other. Repeat.
Anything else you need for--
[Grace] Just some water.
He gave me a pill
and it's still in my throat.
[officer] Two venti coffees.
Thank you so much.
Water for him.
Or coffee. That's
I need both.
Or not.
Okay. so this is
kind of a tough room.
so don't take it personally.
I don't need anything fancy.
As long as there's a bed
and a shower I'm good.
[chatter fades]
-[softly] I can't do this.
-[Stratt] Come on. Yes.
-[Grace] I can't. I can't.
-[Stratt] You're doing great.
Everyone.
this is Dr. Ryland Grace
from the United States.
Please go here. Thank you.
And he figured out
how to breed Astrophage.
How did you do it?
[Dr. Lokken] How long
does the process take?
Does it reproduce
by mitosis or meiosis?
[scientist over monitor]
What is the incubation period?
[overlapping chatter]
[Grace] Um [clears throat]
Carl and I made a mini Venus
out of a plywood box.
and as soon as
the samples recognized
the. uh. spectral signature
of CO2. they were
They were like.
"Whoomp! There it is!"
Okay.
You can sit down.
[Narender] Who's Carl?
While your experiment
was crude and clumsy.
our scientists
have replicated his results.
[indistinct chatter]
I'm sorry. how did you see--?
We estimate
an eight-day doubling time
under optimal conditions.
-Dr. Grace is right.
-Oh.
It is the CO2.
[softly] That's why
they're going to Venus.
Please say it for everyone.
That's why
they're going to Venus.
So that's why
is what Dr. Grace wants to say.
[in normal voice]
They're going to breed.
Whoomp! There it is.
[Grace chuckles]
I really like him.
How long
to make two million kilogram?
Two million?
Two million is--
Why
on earth would you need
that much Astrophage?
Nobody told him?
He has no clearance.
Please stand up. Dr. Grace.
Stand up.
I hereby grant you
top-secret clearance
to all information pertaining
to Project Hail Mary.
[softly]
What's Project Hail Mary?
[Stratt] All right.
The sun
is not the only star dying.
There is a clear pattern
of infection.
Every star was infected
by its neighbor except one.
Tau Ceti?
That's right.
11.9 light years away.
It is uninfected
despite being well within
the cluster of infected stars.
Why?
Why? Tell him.
[all in unison] We don't know!
Which is why
we decided to build a ship
to go there and find out.
It's 11.9 light years away.
You can't just
build an interstellar ship.
Oh yeah. we can.
The ship
is not really the problem.
The energy required to power
the ship is the problem.
It was the problem.
The Astrophage is the fuel.
Provided we can
make enough of it.
And for that.
we need you. my friend.
Me?
Ooh. Those little guys
store a lot of energy.
One mistake
and that much Astrophage
could vaporize California.
That's true. which is why
you now live on a boat
in the middle
of the ocean in case
[imitates explosion]
-I live on a boat?
-You do.
So you wanna build
a near-light speed spaceship.
have it travel further
than any human-made object
has ever traveled.
and visit a star
just to "see what's up"?
Yeah.
And then what?
[Stratt] There won't be
enough fuel for a round-trip
so they send their findings
back to Earth on probes.
And the astronauts
die in space?
Yes.
[Grace] Space.
Any other plans
you've thought of?
Anything else
you're kicking around?
There are
infinite possibilities
for this to go wrong.
It almost certainly won't work.
It's what you Americans
would call a long shot.
Hail Mary.
I get it now.
The alternative
is to just do nothing
and to starve
and to kill each other
and watch everything
on this planet go extinct.
including us.
So
[pensive music playing]
[Grace] That's a long time
to be in space.
[Stratt] They'll be in comas
for most of it.
But is that even safe?
Nothing about this is safe.
We only need three.
A pilot.
An engineer.
And a scientist.
[exhales sharply]
Commander Yáo.
I must have known you.
but I just don't remember.
You make a funny face
in literally every picture.
You must have been very smart
and strong
and brave.
[clears throat]
Ilyukhina.
First. I owe you
three bags of vodka.
You seemed
to have had a lot of friends.
This picture of you.
what looks like
sneaking into the Kremlin
is legendary.
I wish you were still here.
I wish I wasn't alone.
I wish I was
doing a better job. I just. uh
You were both very loved.
[sniffles]
You deserve
much more than this.
[voice breaking]
I'll do my best
to make sure that you don't
[sniffles]
you know. that you didn't--
[clears throat]
I'll do my best.
[pensive music rises]
[birds chirping]
[music fades]
[alarm blaring]
[Mary]
Approaching Tau Ceti orbit.
Prepare for engine cutoff.
[tense music playing]
-Fourteen. thirteen
-[Grace] What?
Why engine cutoff?
Seems like something
we should talk about.
[Mary] Pilot detected.
-[systems powering up]
-What? No. I'm not a pilot!
[Mary] Four. three
What happens at zero? I mean--
[music fades]
You are now orbiting Tau Ceti.
-[intriguing music playing]
-[shrieking]
What the fudging fudger?
[Grace grunting]
[Mary]
Petrovascope operational.
It's Tau Ceti.
You have a Petrova line.
But you're not dimming.
Why?
What is that?
[Mary] Blip-A detected.
What's a Blip-A?
[intriguing music continues]
[music fades]
No. no. No. no. no.
Let's go. Let's go. Mary.
No-No-No-No!
Pilot detected!
[Mary] Please engage restraint.
-[Mary] Pilot detected.
-We're getting outta here.
[Mary] Engage spin drive.
-Engage the spin drive.
-[Mary] Incorrect.
Welcome to the Hail Mary.
Is it this thing?
[amusing music playing]
[Mary]
Erratic maneuver detected.
Yeah.
-[music stops]
-[exhales sharply]
[music resumes]
[Mary] Blip-A detected.
[Grace groans]
What do they want?
[music stops]
[thrumming]
What?
[amusing music playing]
[grunts]
[Mary] Blip-B detected.
What's a Bl--?
[Mary] Current distance
from Hail Mary is 800 meters.
It's sending me something.
It could be a message.
It could be a bomb.
Is it a bomb?
Shields up!
There are no shields
on board the Hail Mary.
Why not?
-Thirty meters.
-[music intensifies]
Twenty meters. Ten.
[music fades]
[exhales deeply]
Well. I guess there's egg
on both our faces. huh. Mary?
[Mary] Blip-C detected.
What's that?
[amusing music playing]
Why is it moving so much
slower than the last one?
They think I'm dumb.
If we were gonna catch it.
what would we do?
[Mary] Would you like to go
on a space walk. Dr. Grace?
[exhales. clicks tongue]
[Mary]
To begin your space walk.
put on your EVA suit
and proceed to the airlock.
[Grace] Yeah.
Yes!
[grunts]
[groans]
[beeping]
[music fades]
[breathing deeply]
[dramatic music playing]
No.
That's just crazy.
[gasps]
[tense music playing]
[grunts]
[Grace panting]
-[music stops]
-[Grace grunts]
[Grace thuds]
[amusing music playing]
Righty tighty. lefty loosey.
[spectrometer beeping]
Xenon's a gas.
I think this thing's broken.
[Dr. Lokken] We need equipment
to analyze the Astrophage
at Tau Ceti. Correct?
-[Stratt] Dr. Grace.
-[Grace] Sorry. Hi.
[Dr. Lokken] Most of
this equipment won't work
in zero gravity.
[Stratt] And we have a team
to develop and build
zero gravity versions
of this equipment.
[Dr. Lokken]
We would need years for that.
and we have months.
[Stratt]
What's the alternative?
We make gravity.
Centrifuge?
Centrifuge.
They used them to make butter
during the Civil War.
actually.
It's a fun fact.
[systems powering up]
[Mary] Lab operational.
[Grace thuds]
[spectrometer beeping]
[Grace] Still Xenon!
Up is down! Left is right!
Xenon's a solid!
Aliens are real!
I'm wrong about everything
and everything's wrong.
[exhales deeply]
Lefty tighty. righty loosey.
I mean-- [sniffs]
-Oh no!
-[alarm blaring]
[Mary]
Foreign presence detected.
[exhales deeply]
[object clinking]
[Grace exclaims]
[amusing music playing]
You're a long way from home.
I'm a long way from home too.
[Mary] Blip-D detected.
[music fades]
[Grace breathing deeply]
[exhales deeply]
[grunts]
[intriguing music playing]
[grunts softly]
[thuds]
-[loud thud]
-[Grace screams]
[Grace groans]
[Grace panting]
[thudding softly]
[gasps softly]
[soft chittering]
Is that me?
My ship.
I don't understand.
[soft chittering]
Oh.
You want me
to go back in my ship?
[soft chittering]
But I just got here.
Okay.
I'll talk to you later.
Bye.
[stirring music playing]
[amusing music playing]
[softly]
What are they doing. Mary?
[Mary] It is not advised
to modify the centrifugal
settings of the ship.
Thank you. Mary.
[muffled thud]
[crackling]
[exhales sharply]
[loud hissing]
[groans]
What?
Oh my.
This is new.
[thudding echoes]
Anybody home?
I like what you've done
with the gravity.
I made you a ship.
It's ramen.
I only made one.
I'm not sure
how many of you there are.
[breathes deeply]
[soft chittering]
[Grace] Hi.
-[screaming]
-[screeching]
[high-pitched chittering]
No-No-No-No-No!
I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
You scared me when you went:
-[imitates screaming]
-[high-pitched chittering]
[intriguing music playing]
[laughs]
[rapid chittering]
Wow.
[soft chittering]
[Grace]
Can't seem to see a face.
Mysterious.
Faces are overrated.
[musical notes playing]
[soft thudding]
-[musical notes playing]
-[chuckles]
You like tapping. huh?
[vocalizing musical notes]
[musical notes playing]
[musical notes playing rapidly]
[Grace] This is fun.
[chittering]
You're pointing.
You're not tapping. Sorry.
Another present.
[container hisses]
[soft chittering]
I don't have one of these.
I love it! Thank you.
[chittering]
What. I put this on my head?
-[chittering]
-Take off my head?
[chittering]
Take my helmet off?
No.
It'll [imitates explosion]
[chittering]
-That's a big ask.
-[light flickering]
Oh.
This has taken a turn.
Thank you for
what I hope is not handcuffs.
And I'm sorry
about the whole helmet thing.
Unfortunately. I need oxygen
to breathe. so [chuckles]
Two rings of eight.
O2.
You little rascal.
This is oxygen!
[chittering]
I still don't think
I can do it. though. Sorry.
It's just. uh
if I'm wrong. I'm really wrong.
[Grace sighs]
[gasps softly]
[chittering]
[inhales deeply]
[helmet hisses]
[breathing deeply]
[exhales. chuckles]
[chittering]
Okay.
[exhales]
It's the Petrova line.
We're here for the same reason.
You have
a Petrova line problem too.
You need to solve it.
I need to solve it.
That's why you made me this.
[chittering]
I'm gonna take that as a yes.
If we're gonna
save our planets.
we have to learn
how to communicate.
You know. they say math
is the universal language.
I thought maybe we find out
if that's true?
You see the numbers?
Oh. you want this?
Whoa! Christmas Eve. that is
It's really hot in there.
Is that ammonia?
Anyway. that's
Look. see the numbers?
No. They're on the other side.
Do it again.
If you do it again and you--
Don't let it snap back.
Don't do it. Don't do it.
Hold it like that.
And you look--
[chittering]
Wow. Wow.
How 'bout something else?
Look at this.
A clock.
We both have time. Right?
These are the hands.
and these are the numbers.
One. two. three.
They point to the numbers.
And if you'll notice.
there's numbers there.
and there's also numbers here.
-Okay.
-[chittering]
It is dark.
[chittering]
[voice echoing] I got an idea.
Wait.
Don't Yeah.
Don't go anywhere. Stay.
Oh. Oh yeah.
I'm Grace.
[chittering]
I'm gonna call you Rocky.
You know. 'cause you look
like a giant rock. Oh!
Um. I'm fine.
[amusing music playing]
[chittering]
Echolocation. Right?
You need surfaces to see.
Try this.
[voice echoing]
You see the numbers?
[chittering]
What is that?
Is that good?
[voice echoing]
Jazz hands means "good"?
We do this.
Your version of this
is our thumbs up.
Nope. That's thumbs down.
[chittering]
We do the thumbs up.
[Rocky chittering]
It's close enough.
[chittering]
You want me to wait? I wait?
Yeah. No
I'm really excited to be
working with you on this.
Fired up.
I'm sorry I'm talking so much.
It's just. I haven't been
around anyone in a long time.
Oh.
What have we got here?
[clinks]
[chittering]
It's a clock.
I showed you a clock
and you're showing me a clock.
We're. uh. clock bros.
[chittering]
Right.
Um. I gotta be honest.
[chittering]
[Grace] I'm not sure
I'm getting all of this.
Check this out.
[chittering]
I thought I might record you.
-[chittering]
-Oh. no-no. No. That's okay.
It's just a microphone.
Works like this.
Let's start with one.
-One.
-[chitters]
No-No. wait. wait. wait. Sorry.
[Rocky chitters]
[Grace] Okay. One.
And
[chitters]
One!
[Rocky chittering]
Okay.
So. uh
I met an alien.
And we're learning
to communicate.
Let's do names.
Okay. let's start with you.
Rocky.
[chittering]
You done?
My name--
Can't wait to hear this.
is Grace.
What's your word
for my name? Go ahead.
[Rocky chitters]
You know.
enough to order at restaurants.
We have about 250 words.
My atmosphere
would kill him and his. me.
But I like to keep a wall up
in my relationships anyways.
He's a mechanic. I think.
He uses a metal form of xenon.
He can make anything.
Look at this.
I'm calling it "xenonite."
And if I can't understand
what he's saying.
which is most of the time.
he puts on a little puppet show
for me and my tiny brain.
And you know what?
I don't mind it.
He's kinda growing on me.
At least he's not
growing in me. you know?
Which was a concern
for a little while.
His sun is dying too.
So maybe
we can help each other.
Recognize this?
[chitters]
We call it "Astrophage."
It means star-eater.
[chittering]
[Grace] "Astrophage on me star.
Bad. bad. bad.
bad. bad. bad. bad." Yeah.
Same.
[pensive music playing]
[chittering softly]
Why are you alone?
[chittering]
Twenty-three?
Wow. Um
What happened to them?
[Rocky chittering]
I'm sorry.
[Rocky chitters softly]
How did they die?
[Rocky chittering]
[chittering]
[Grace] Oh.
Um
There were three of us.
and two died on the way here.
[chitters softly]
[Grace] I wish I knew why.
Now it's only me.
[Rocky chittering]
[chittering]
Correction.
[stirring music playing]
Deal.
Called a fist bump. by the way.
[Rocky chittering]
What's that?
"Fist my bump"?
No. It's fist bump.
[Rocky chittering]
It's not the same.
[Grace] Exactly. The Astrophage
has to reach Tau Ceti.
Otherwise. we wouldn't
see the Petrova line.
[Rocky chittering]
[scoffs]
[squealing]
[Grace] Do we really
need this whole model?
Right.
Oh boy.
I used to have
one of these in my classroom.
and it was a lot simpler
to set up.
[clattering]
[chittering]
One sec. What? What?
That is a great question.
You know what? Try this.
[in deep. raspy male voice]
Why is a schoolteacher
in space. question?
-No.
- Don't like that voice.
-Can't unhear it. really.
-Scary.
Let's try this.
-[in sultry female voice] Ooh.
-Nope.
Why is a schoolteacher
in space?
No need to even continue. Nope.
[in British female voice] Why
is a schoolteacher in space?
[Grace laughs]
[in British female voice]
What's so funny. question?
[persnickety male voice] Why
is a schoolteacher in space?
I mean
[persnickety male voice]
It has charm. but no.
Meryl Streep?
[in Meryl Streep's voice] Why
is a schoolteacher in space?
[Grace chuckles]
She can do anything.
[in French male voice] Why
is a schoolteacher in space?
[Rocky chitters]
Don't think so.
[in friendly voice] Why
is a schoolteacher in space?
-That's not bad.
-[Rocky chitters]
-[Rocky] I like.
-[Grace] All right.
And in answer to your question.
I have no idea
what I'm doing in space.
I don't remember.
[Rocky] Is okay.
Grace find out
when Grace go home.
I'm gonna go to sleep.
[Rocky] No understand word.
Sleep?
Uh. just. you go like this.
[Rocky] Died? Is died? Died?
No-No-No-No-No.
No. Not died. Just lay here
for 29.000 seconds and then
[inhales deeply]
we wake up!
[Rocky] Oh. Understand.
We call this:
Okay. Here we go.
Sleep.
Good night. sir.
[Grace] I watch Grace sleep.
[Grace] No. that's fine.
That's a little weird.
I'll be good. Good night!
[Rocky] No. not safe.
Eridians must watch sleep.
That's really interesting.
That sounds like something
We can unpack that tomorrow.
[Rocky]
Rocky watch crew many days.
Crew not wake up.
[exhales]
That's where you're gonna be?
[Rocky]
No. it's usually closer.
On your chest.
I wonder if it would work
from a little farther back.
[Rocky] But Grace won't
feel comfortable and safe.
Well Hey. look. I'm seeing
so many sides of you lately.
and it's great.
Right now I'm seeing
the underside of you.
[thuds]
Kind of a side sleeper anyway.
Good night.
So. we watch each other sleep.
Eridians don't sleep
like a human does.
They seem
legitimately paralyzed.
If danger comes.
he can't wake up.
It's a survival norm.
Someone has to keep you safe.
[indistinct chatter]
[woman over PA]
Attention: Mission update.
Scientific objective completed.
[Stratt] Flight team. I want
you to meet Dr. Ryland Grace.
He is currently
the world's leading authority
in Astrophage biology.
Dr. Grace.
these are the three astronauts
going on the mission
and their backups
for redundancy.
Yáo. Ilyukhina. and DuBois.
Our pilot. engineer.
and science officer.
[Grace] It's an honor.
I'm excited to share
what I've learned about
Astrophage and spin drives.
We have 1.009 of these
Little Engines That Could
on the Hail Mary and--
[speaking Mandarin]
[in English] Okay.
-[Stratt] You're doing great.
-[Grace] What?
Once the mission is complete.
we have the option
to end our lives on our terms.
The alternative is slow
miserable death by starvation.
[Ilyukhina]
I want to do lethal injection
with a little bit of heroin.
I will have
what she's having. [chuckles]
[Narender] Following on
from Dr. Grace's discovery.
we've built an IR emitter
set to the wavelength of CO2.
which attracts the Astrophage
to this revolver face.
The drive
then rotates outwards. yeah?
We increase the IR.
the Astrophage get excited.
thrust the ship forward.
and so on and so on.
This is less than a gram
of Astrophage.
and we only need
a fraction of this
for this demonstration.
if you want to take a look.
To do what?
To melt a metric ton of metal.
[alarm blaring]
[muffled explosion]
Powerful stuff.
Commander Yáo.
I really appreciate
what you all are doing.
[Yáo] You would do the same.
I would choose
just not to go at all.
[Yáo laughs]
I don't have the bravery gene
that you all have. Trust me.
[Yáo] It's not a gene.
You just need to find someone
to be brave for.
[Mary] Movement detected.
[metal thudding]
[Rocky] Hi. Grace.
You're in a ball!
[Rocky] So Rocky
no die in Grace atmosphere.
-I come up.
-Oh. you're coming up.
[Mary] Foreign body detected.
[Rocky]
Grace and Rocky big science
how to kill
Astrophage together.
I keep going this way?
-This room boring.
-[Grace] Rocky!
[Rocky] Science. Save Earth.
Save Erid. Good plan.
[Grace] No! No! No!
[Rocky]
What this down here. question?
Amaze. amaze. amaze.
Rocky want
to see human technology.
Dirty. dirty. dirty.
Dirty. dirty.
Why room so messy. question?
Well. I wasn't
expecting company. was I?
[Rocky]
Is this room for garbage? Oh.
-Dirty. dirty. dirty.
-[Grace] No. This is the lab.
This is
where the science happens.
-[Rocky] What this? What this?
-That's the evaporator. Whoa!
[Rocky] What this?
That is the disco ball.
That makes me happy.
[Rocky]
Rocky will build workshop here.
Will need much room for Rocky
and much less space for Grace.
[Grace] What is happening here?
[Rocky] We go Petrova line.
We collect Astrophage.
We study it. We go home.
We collect. We save Earth.
And when you say
"we." uh. where?
[Rocky] I see Grace!
-Apology. apology. apology.
-[Grace] Whoa! Enough!
-Rocky. stay!
-[Rocky] Rocky new to ball.
[Grace] Rocky. my hand is up.
We can't just show up
in a space ball unannounced
and move into someone else's
spaceship. Right?
-There has to be boundaries.
-Boundaries.
-We have one mission.
-Mission.
But we're two
distinct individuals.
Individuals.
Both working on our distinct
individual parts
of that mission.
-[Rocky] Mission.
-Separately.
-Okay.
-Where my bedroom?
-Bedroom?
For what?
So I have a new roommate now.
Be careful back there. okay?
The chore wheel's
pretty lopsided.
Where on earth does that go?
-Not on Earth. More high.
-[Grace] It goes this way?
-[Rocky] Wall. Wall.
-All the way out to here?
-Yes. Out. pointy.
-What?
He tells me what to do.
he tells me why to do it.
he tells me how to do it.
he tells me when to do it.
And then when I do it.
he's like.
"What are you doing?"
I'm just saying you're gonna
get out of the ball
to get into a much bigger ball?
[Rocky] Yes. For sleeping.
[Mary] Sounds like
you're having an argument.
You don't even use a bed!
[Mary] Conflict is normal
amongst crewmembers.
You have the Hellraiser thing
that you sleep on.
-What do you need a bed for?
-[Rocky] Grumpy. angry. stupid.
How long
since last sleep. question?
Don't talk to--
Armando. Yes. Can I help you?
You're doing this.
It's a lot of this.
[whispering]
And then he's like.
"No understand. no understand."
And then it's like
[in normal voice]
"Need a word."
[whispering] You know
what the word is? Bossy.
I'm like one of the villains
in the Superman movie.
I'm just.
like. trapped in hell.
Get me out of here!
His eating habits are
[smacks lips. sighs]
exotic.
[Rocky]
Grace look disgust when eat.
How do you look when you eat?
-Is look beautiful.
-Show me.
-[Rocky grunting]
-Oh my God.
[chittering]
Oh my God.
[whispering]
He has incredible hearing.
He can see through walls.
Personal space is at a premium.
[Rocky] Who is Grace
talking to. question?
There's no way
you can hear me right now.
[Rocky] Can hear.
Who are you talking to?
You can hear this?
[Rocky] Yes. Grace say.
"You can hear this?"
-[faintly] What about this?
-Yes.
[whispering]
Oh my God. Look at this.
Look how far away he is.
-[softly] That is where he is.
-Hello. Grace.
-He's right here. Okay?
-Hello. Grace Friend.
Did Grace
find sampler instruction?
[Grace] Yes. I found
the sampler instruct--
Yes. I found
the sampler instructions.
-[Rocky chitters]
-[Grace sighs]
[Grace] He's really smart
about some things.
Oh my God. he's got a gun!
[Rocky] Oh. This? No. no. no.
This to screen in front.
and now this to that over here.
Now Rocky can hear screen.
-Please don't point it at me.
-Oh. Point over here.
-Yes.
-Oh. okay. Now over there.
You're pointing at me again.
But his species
doesn't know about things
like relativity and radiation.
And the rest of the crew?
-[Rocky] In mid of ship. There.
-In here?
And where did
you keep the Astrophage?
[chitters] Fuel tanks
next to Rocky workshop there.
I think the radiation is what
made your crew sick. Rock.
The Astrophage probably
just protected you from it.
This isn't something
that you could have fixed.
But I guess together
we're. you know. pretty smart.
Since we're only gonna
be able to intersect
with the Petrova line
for a few seconds.
we're not gonna have enough
time to get a good sample.
[Rocky] Too fast.
Do puppet show. Too fast.
I don't want
to do the puppet show.
[Rocky] No. do puppet show.
This is us.
We're. you know. flying along.
The problem is.
because the solar system
is constantly moving.
the Petrova line is gonna
constantly be moving. Right?
Am I still doing it?
-You still want it?
-[Rocky] Yes. yes. Show time.
So we're not gonna have time
to get the sample.
[Rocky] No. no. no.
Use planet gravity
to move with line.
You mean sort of
like rest in its orbit?
[Rocky] Yes.
[smacks lips]
-I didn't think of that.
-[Rocky] I did.
[Grace] We figured out a plan.
We're gonna orbit the planet
where Astrophage breeds.
collect a sample and figure out
why it's not eating Tau Ceti.
[Rocky]
Who is Grace talking to?
I'm not talking to anyone.
[sighs wearily]
[whispering] I need a break.
-[Rocky] Break from what?
-Oh my God.
[in normal voice] Forget it.
this isn't gonna work.
[rock song playing]
[Grace]
150 million kilometers away.
Racing along
at 162 kilometers per second.
Means we should arrive
at Tau Ceti-e at--
[Mary] Arrival at Tau Ceti-e
in 11 days. 3 hours
and 14 minutes.
-Thank you. Mary.
-You're welcome. Dr. Grace.
-[Rocky] Thank you. Mary.
-You're welcome. Rocky.
Welcome to Earth.
[Mary] You are in
the Mental Health Node.
[Grace] Whoa. whoa. whoa!
Careful. Rocky.
Rock. Look out below.
The beach is always changing.
You could go
to the same spot every day.
you're always looking
at a different beach.
[Grace sighs]
Trees.
And you climb. and you climb
to the top if you can.
[Grace]
He's so excited about us
both getting to go home.
There's no harm in pretending
for a little while.
Touch the wave. Rock.
[Rocky] Touching the wave.
Is wiping out. Hanging ten.
Hey! Oh!
The Big Apple. baby.
In Three. Apollo trains him.
And in Seven.
he trains Apollo's kid.
[Rocky] Yeah! Yeah! Yeah!
-Punch. punch. punch. punch.
-Nice!
-[Balboa] Adrian!
-[Adrian] Rocky!
[singing]
♪ I say either. you say ♪
[singing] ♪ Say either ♪
Nope.
-♪ I say neither. you say ♪
-♪ Ne-i-ther ♪
No.
[Rocky] I like Earth.
I miss the fog.
What about you. Rock?
What do you miss most
about home?
[Rocky] Hmm. my mate.
[Grace] Wait. what?
-You got a mate?
-Yes.
I mean. not that you-- I mean--
What's their name?
Name is:
[chittering musically
in alien language]
It's beautiful.
Grace have mate. question?
No.
I mean. I did.
But she thought
I had my head in the clouds
and I didn't really want
to live in the real world.
She was right.
Anyway. now she's with Mark.
Rocky hate Mark.
But enough about me.
You have a mate.
How long you been together?
186.3 years.
It's like the honeymoon phase.
-No understand.
-[Grace] That's a joke. Rock.
That's a long time.
You've been together
a long time.
[chitters softly]
Is not enough.
["Wind of Change"
by Scorpions playing]
[Ilyukhina singing]
♪ Like brothers ♪
♪ The future's in the air ♪
[both singing]
♪ I can feel it everywhere ♪
♪ Blowing
With the wind of change ♪
[song continues in background]
[Grace] Permission
to come aboard. captain.
[Stratt] You're already aboard.
Did you get your free hat?
-Yeah. I kinda bought them.
-[Grace] Oh.
You don't sing. huh?
Yeah. I do.
I actually sang in
an Eastern German youth choir.
You're very mysterious.
No. I'm not.
I always wanted to be
mysterious.
Talk too much.
That's my problem.
[smacks lips] Like right now.
[clears throat]
I didn't mean to bother you.
You don't bother me.
It is such a weird party.
Is it?
Yáo is singing.
Everyone's so happy.
People are hooking up.
and they all know
they're gonna die.
Camaraderie helps them
do their job. you know.
Not so much me. So
Must be hard
having to ask everybody to
you know.
Actually it isn't.
Yeah.
So. what do you think?
You think
you're gonna pull it off?
What. the whole thing?
Yeah.
God willing.
You believe in God?
It beats the alternative.
[enthralling music playing]
[chuckles softly]
[music swells]
[inaudible chatter. singing]
[music fades softly]
[singing]
♪ Just stop your crying ♪
♪ It's a sign of the times ♪
♪ Welcome to the final show ♪
♪ I hope you're wearing
your best clothes ♪
♪ You can't bribe the door
on your way to the sky ♪
♪ You look pretty good
Down here ♪
♪ But you ain't really good
Oh ♪
♪ We never learn
We've been here before ♪
♪ Why are we always stuck
and running from ♪
♪ The bullets? ♪
♪ The bullets ♪
[music swells]
♪ Just stop your crying
It's a sign of the times ♪
[all cheering]
♪ We gotta get away from here ♪
♪ Just stop your crying
It'll be all right ♪
♪ They told me
That the end is near ♪
♪ We gotta get away
From here. oh ♪
♪ Just stop your crying
Have the time of your life ♪
♪ Breaking through
The atmosphere ♪
♪ And it all looks good
From here ♪
♪ Remember
Everything will be all right ♪
♪ We can meet again somewhere ♪
♪ Somewhere far
Away from here ♪
And that is enough.
[all cheering]
[music fades softly]
[enchanting music playing]
[Grace] I wish
you could see this. Rock.
[Rocky] Rocky can see.
Boring.
[Grace on radio]
What? This is not boring.
[Rocky] Name of planet
Tau Ceti-e is same name
as star plus "E."
Boring.
I guess it could be
a little more evocative.
[Rocky] Astrophage sampler
in position. question?
[Grace] Yep. [sighs]
Trays are live.
looking both ways.
[Rocky] It is time go.
[chuckles softly]
[Grace] It's time go.
[music swells]
[Rocky]
What is Grace doing. question?
[softly] I'm having a moment.
[enchanting music continues]
[Grace]
You know. back on Earth.
if you discover something.
you get to name it.
You were technically
the first one here. so
Yes. name is Medium-Rough
Texture Circle Planet.
[Grace] 'Kay.
Well. if Medium-Rough Texture
Circle Planet was taken.
we'll just have a backup.
Maybe go
with something personal.
[Rocky on radio] Personal.
[Grace]
What's your mate's name again?
Name is
[chittering musically
in alien language]
[Grace on radio] It's okay.
it's okay. I remember.
Need human word for Rocky mate.
Adrian.
Is beautiful.
[music fades softly]
[amusing music playing]
[machine beeping. whirring]
[beeps]
Well. that's weird.
[Rocky] What?
[Grace] It's the same amount.
both coming and going.
[Rocky] But if Astrophage
going to Adrian to breed.
there should be more leaving.
It should be double.
It doesn't make sense.
It's either not reproducing
or it's not leaving the planet
for some reason.
[music continues]
Oh. my God.
What? What Grace see?
What Grace see. question?
Life.
[chitters in relief]
[music swells]
[Grace]
This is not just Astrophage.
It's bacteria. it's protozoa.
[Rocky]
It's like cells on Erid.
And Earth.
[Rocky]
What this mean. question?
Well. if there's a whole
active biosphere
in the Petrova line.
it stands to reason there's
a whole active biosphere
on Adrian. which means
There's life on Adrian.
-Oh. Grace! Grace!
-Yeah?
Life. Life is reason.
Life is reason!
Yeah. You said it. buddy.
Life is the reason.
No understand. No understand.
Use your words.
Life's the reason for what?
-Life is reason.
-Life is the reason for what?
[Rocky]
Life is reason. Life is reason.
-[chitters]
-Life is reason what?
[Rocky]
Life on Adrian is reason
Astrophage in balance.
Life on Adrian
makes Astrophage die.
Like a predator.
[Rocky] Yes.
That would
keep the population stable.
Grace.
if we bring predator home
our stars not die.
Life is reason star not die.
Why didn't you just say that?
[Grace] If there is some kind
of microbial predator
on Adrian.
it'll be in the clouds
where Astrophage breeds.
-Check. Oh.
-[clangs]
The problem is this ship
wasn't built
to go into the atmosphere.
If we get
within five kilometers.
we'll be ripped
into a million pieces
and then we'll burn up.
Game over.
Game not over.
I make chain.
I make long chain.
I put collection device on end.
Oh. yeah. yeah.
Five kilometers of chain. Sure.
-Guard me!
-[Rocky] Like this chain. Look.
-You can do that?
-Yes.
Kinda like fishing.
[Rocky] What that?
Whoa. whoa!
[Grace] Fishing!
Can you believe it?
-It could work.
-Thumbs up. baby.
Hello. Earth!
Plan is like fishing.
We get very close
to Adrian atmosphere
and lower collector
into clouds with chain.
Then Grace go on hull
to reel it in.
If ship not at precise
angle and speed. we die!
Example! [thuds]
[exhales]
We must fly backwards
to keep proper velocity.
even though Grace
still have no pilot experience.
But I've been practicing.
haven't I?
-More! No. Left. Be left.
-What?
More left. More left.
Is perfect. No. Wrong.
[Mary]
Erratic maneuver detected.
[Rocky] No.
Wrong way. Wrong angle.
Bad. bad. bad.
Good. good. good.
Good. Bad. Not enough.
Not enough.
Too much! Left. left. left.
I'm barely pulling it!
[Rocky] No. is bad.
Grace Rocky dead.
All Rocky plural.
all Earth. die.
-[Mary] Power off.
-[Rocky] We die. We die.
Rocky has
built predator collector.
Rocky chain spooled and ready.
Grace pilot training
not as good.
What think. Earth?
Hello?
-They can't hear you. pal.
-What?
We're not actually talking
to Earth. Earth's too far away.
We just record these messages
and we tell 'em
what we've learned.
and then when we're done.
we'll send them
all back in a probe.
[Rocky]
Why not you tell them yourself
when you return home. question?
Yeah.
This is a one-way ticket
for me. pal.
[Rocky] What?
[Grace] We had enough
Astrophage to get here
but not enough to get back.
[Rocky] So.
what happens Grace. question?
Oh [scoffs]
I got enough food to last me
at least a couple years.
Maybe a couple more
if I stretch it out.
[Rocky] So Grace die. question?
Yeah. once we're done. I'm
I'm gonna die.
[Rocky] Why didn't you tell me?
[Grace] It slipped my mind.
[Rocky] No.
Grace say Grace go home.
Look.
-Listen. Listen. Listen.
-No. No.
I got to meet you.
I got to do
all this amazing stuff.
I'm good.
I've made peace with it.
What mean?
What mean "make peace"?
It means
I know I'm not going home
I know why
and it's okay.
-Thumbs up?
-No.
-Tiny thumbs up?
We got stars to save. Okay?
[melancholy music playing]
-Grace?
-Yeah.
You are
[chitters in alien language]
Need word.
W-W-What word do you need?
To risk self to help another.
Uh. dumb.
[Rocky] Grace?
[music continues]
How much Astrophage
you need. question?
[Grace] Two million kilograms.
[Rocky] I can give.
I go home six years slower.
That's too much.
Rocky watch crew die.
Could not fix.
Grace say Grace will die.
Rocky fix.
[serene music playing]
Grace go home.
[shudders]
Okay.
[music swells]
I thought
you made peace. question?
I didn't mean
any of that. [sniffles]
That's just something you say.
Thank you.
[music crescendoes]
Get over here.
Whoa. whoa. whoa.
What? What's happening?
-A hug.
-Oh! Hmm.
It's usually not something
one does by themselves.
Oh. Wait. I do the same?
Would you just get in here?
How do you know
when the hug is done?
-You just feel it.
-Oh.
Are you feeling it now?
Nope.
Oh. Oh. okay. Yeah.
[Grace] We ran the sampler
simulation again this morning.
Shapiro and DuBois
nailed it again.
Okay. What about the others?
They'll be ready.
[Stratt] I expect so.
They have a great teacher.
Can you
take a compliment please?
[Grace] No.
-It's an order. Okay?
-[chuckles]
Okay. If it's an order.
I'll take it. Thank you.
Good.
What do you think?
It's pretty impressive. [sighs]
-Yeah.
-You're
You're good.
-[sighs]
-Three days. huh?
Yeah.
So. what are you gonna do
for the next 20 years?
You got a plan?
[chuckles softly]
[distant screams]
[shockwave thuds]
[tense music playing]
[music swells]
[music calms]
[chair whirring softly]
[Mary] Manual mode activated.
[chair whirring]
[exhales]
[chitters]
Go.
[engines sputter. power up]
[rattling]
[hull creaking]
[engines whirring]
[rattling intensifies]
That's not half bad!
[Rocky] Is full good.
[spluttering]
Time go fishing. question?
It's now or never.
[whirring]
[suspenseful music playing]
[clattering]
-[Rocky] Three thousand meters.
-Three thousand.
[Rocky] Probe signal good.
[wind blowing]
Now comes the fun part.
[Rocky] Grace go out on hull
to retrieve collector?
No fun at all.
It's a joke.
[Rocky] Oh. humor. Confusing.
[Grace groans]
You gotta be kidding me.
What problem. question?
[Grace] It's fine. It's just
the sky is slightly on fire.
[spluttering]
[Rocky] Words of encouragement.
[Grace] You can't just say
"words of encouragement."
[Rocky on radio]
Words of great encouragement.
[Grace on radio] Nope.
[music swells]
[grunts]
[creaking]
-[Grace] Did you feel that?
-Yes.
I'm not worried.
Are you worried?
[Rocky] Yes.
[Grace] Great.
[creaking continues]
[Rocky] Collector is closed.
Move winch into position.
[thudding]
-[firing]
-[Grace] Whoa!
How long
is this supposed to take?
-[clangs]
-[Grace groans]
[Rocky on radio]
Collector should be here soon.
[Grace] Yeah. It's here.
[Rocky] Amaze. amaze. amaze!
[Grace groans]
[Rocky]
Careful. Collector important.
Yup.
[Mary] Altitude warning.
[Rocky] Oh. hurry. hurry.
[music crescendoes]
[Rocky] Hurry. hurry.
[creaks. clangs]
[thuds]
Grace?
Grace. status update.
Status update.
Grace?
Grace is safe. question?
[Grace] I'm okay.
[Rocky] Good. good. good.
Come inside
with predator collector now.
[Grace] Uh
[Rocky on radio]
Why not moving. question?
[Mary] Warning!
Exterior temperature elevated.
[Rocky] Must move now. Go. go.
[rattling]
[tense music playing]
No. Grace.
Bad idea. Come inside.
I'll be there in a minute.
[Rocky on radio] No. no. no.
no. no. Grace will die.
Can repeat mission.
Can try again later.
I don't think
there is gonna be a later.
[Rocky] Abort. abort. abort.
Grace will die.
No-No-No-No-No-No-No-No-No.
[music swells]
[thuds]
[groaning]
[music swells]
-Grace?
-[Grace] I'm here!
Amaze. amaze. amaze!
-[Grace groans]
-Grace okay. question?
Well. I'm not dead. so yes.
Good. good. good. good.
[Grace] Where
is that noise coming from?
[Rocky]
Noise is from all around.
It's loudest
at port side of bedroom.
[Grace] The gravity's
tearing the ship apart.
[Rocky] We leave now. question?
We leave now. statement.
[music crescendoes]
[engine powering up]
[Mary] Hull pressure warning.
[Rocky] Hull bending
in big room below bedroom.
That's the fuel tanks.
-Oh. Bad. bad. bad.
-Well. it's not great.
-Bad. bad. bad.
-[Mary] Warning.
Everybody. calm down.
Calm down!
Try and keep
yourself together. Mary.
-Stop engine now?
-[Grace] Not yet.
We need to get
into orbit or we'll crash!
I have an idea.
First. no crash.
Then. not explode. Deal?
Deal!
Hold on.
[Rocky] Now?
Wait.
[Rocky] Now? Now?
Now!
[powering down]
[music ends]
Did we do it?
[tense music playing]
Why ship moving. question?
There's a hole in it!
-[alarm beeping]
-[Mary] Hull breach.
Port side fuel compartments
11 and 12.
[objects clattering]
Grace.
What happening. question?
The fuel
is migrating to Adrian!
-[hull creaking]
-[groans]
[Rocky]
Eject bad fuel bay. question?
-[Grace] Yeah.
-[rapid beeping]
[Mary] Jettison port fuel tank
compartment 12. Confirm.
-[Rocky whimpering]
-[screaming]
-[grunts]
-[Rocky chitters]
-Rocky!
-[Rocky chittering]
[straining]
[Mary] Jettison port fuel tank
compartment 11. Confirm.
[Rocky] Eject other fuel bay.
[thudding]
[music ends]
[muffled chittering]
-[muffled blaring]
-[breathing softly]
[melancholy music playing]
[groans softly]
[squealing]
[Rocky chittering]
[chittering in pain]
[continues squealing]
-[tapping]
-[music swells]
[thudding]
-[hissing]
-[thuds. groans]
[squealing in pain]
[alarm blaring]
[flap clicks]
[lever clicks]
[beeps]
[dramatic music playing]
[Rocky chitters]
[Rocky continues chittering]
[music swells]
[Rocky chittering in pain]
[alarm beeping]
[Grace]
One nanogram of Astrophage
just isn't enough
to blow up a building.
[Dr. Lokken]
The quartermaster gave him
one milligram by mistake.
That's a million times
the heat energy
that they're prepared for.
A measuring mistake
killed my entire science team?
It doesn't matter.
We have to launch.
If we miss the orbital window.
it'll set us back months.
[Grace] Yeah.
but if no one's trained
to do the mission.
it won't matter.
[Stratt] Casualty projections
go up exponentially
if we delay.
We launch on schedule
with a replacement
science officer.
Okay. but
who?
I mean. that [sighs]
I'm not an astronaut.
I don't need an astronaut.
I need an expert on Astrophage
who's mission-ready.
I'm not ready.
I don't have any training.
[chuckles softly]
You'll pick it up.
I'm not an astronaut!
I put the "not" in astronaut.
I've never done anything--
I've never done a space wa--
I can't even moonwalk!
I haven't done
the whole pool thing.
No. no. no. This is just we do
for the picture.
for social media.
I'm not heroic in any way.
I get sick on an elevator.
Oh. perfect. There's
no elevator on the ship.
I cannot do this.
You're smart.
You'll figure it out.
This might be very hard
for you to understand.
but some people are failures.
Some people don't rise
to the challenge.
You've been present
for every major scientific
or strategic meeting
we've had on the mission.
You're missing out an
important part of the mission
which is the suicide part.
[chuckles nervously]
Grace. you'd be
in very cool company.
If you don't go.
you die anyway.
Yeah.
but I die in 30 years with--
"With the rest of us."
You have no immediate family.
You don't even have a dog.
So. just so I'm clear
you're asking me right now
to give up my life.
I am. We all are.
Can I think about this?
You have three hours.
[suspenseful music playing]
[exhales deeply]
[Mary] Eye movement detected.
Good morning. Dr. Grace.
[intriguing music playing]
[music swells]
[chitters softly]
I'll watch you sleep. pal.
[Grace sighs]
But. uh
you gotta wake up.
[somber music playing]
[Grace]
I'm not sure what to do.
Done everything I can think of.
[melancholy music playing]
I made him a heat lamp.
And he left me
one last message.
[dramatic music playing]
[music swells]
[music crescendoes]
We have our predator.
Right now
I'm calling it "Taumoeba."
And I'm sure
that when you wake up.
you'll have a lot to say
about why that's a bad name
because it's just
an amoeba from Tau Ceti.
and we're putting "Tau"
in front of "amoeba."
But I would argue there's
an elegance to that.
A simplicity.
Let's not fight about it now.
We'll table it and we'll--
I did a test at different
atmospheric variables
and. fun fact. every time
I introduced nitrogen
[blows raspberry] it died.
And I know
what you're thinking.
"Well. that's terrible
because that's a problem
'cause we need it to survive
in the conditions of Venus."
Obviously. I had to figure out
how to breed
a new strain of
nitrogen-resistant Taumoeba.
And guess what I used?
The breeder tanks that we made
with your xenonite.
And you know what?
[kisses]
Now we're just
a couple of very cool dudes
with their very own strain of
nitrogen-resistant Taumoeba.
Really. all we have to do now
is breed enough
to survive the trip.
And you gotta wake up
because I don't know how to get
your half
of the Taumoeba to Erid.
So
No pressure
but we did make a deal.
[dramatic music continues]
[thudding]
[Grace] Shh.
Grace?
Rock. could you just
give me a little chance please
to sleep a little?
[chitters]
[music swells]
[Rocky] Did we find predator?
No? Is yes.
[upbeat
triumphant music playing]
Amaze. amaze. amaze.
Rocky breeder tank design.
Good job. Rock.
[Rocky]
We can go home. statement.
We can go home.
[Rocky] Fist my bump.
Nope.
It's still not right.
-I'll do it.
-[Rocky] Good. good. good.
So what we do now. question?
We party.
[music swells]
Wow.
[Rocky] Is special clothing
for celebration.
[Grace] You're making me think
that I have to. uh. up my game.
-What is this?
-[Grace] If you don't mind.
-Rocky get one!
-[Grace] There you go.
-[Rocky] Is good.
-Yeah.
It's not much.
Just a little something.
Your very own laptop.
My portable
Earth thinking-machine!
[Grace]
With all human knowledge.
Thank. thank. thank.
And just one more thing.
[Rocky] Yes?
What this?
It's Earth.
So you can remember me.
[Rocky] Rocky can't forget.
I didn't get you anything.
You gave me everything.
[Rocky] But if I were to
give you something?
It'd be pretty cool
to see your ship.
[Rocky chitters]
[upbeat music playing]
[Rocky chittering]
[music swells]
[Grace]
I understand that you think
I'm the right person
for this mission.
But
I can't do it.
[smacks lips]
[Grace inhales deeply]
You'll find a solution.
[chuckles]
You are my solution.
My place
is in the classroom. [sighs]
Stop pretending
this is about your students.
It's so insulting.
Grace. we will lose
a quarter
of the world's population
in the next 30 years.
And that assumes
that the nations of the world
work together to ration food.
Which they won't.
So I'd double the estimate.
And if you would
truly care about the children.
or anyone else for that matter.
you'd get on that ship.
[clears throat]
I understand the stakes.
I do.
But I don't have it in me.
[sniffles] My mind is made up.
[groans softly. sniffles]
I'm sorry. but. uh
But you just can't talk me
into it.
[whispering] I'm sorry.
I'm not trying
to talk you into anything.
I am
trying to make you understand
what I'm about to do next.
Yeah? Please.
Stay calm. Come in.
What is this?
Mission plan will state that
we induced your coma early
to maximize your safety.
You will be remembered
as a hero.
Come on. This is crazy.
-I have to do it.
-[sniffles] You're not
Come on. What are you doing?
This may seem
like me betraying you.
but it's actually
me believing in you.
Sure feels like
you're betraying me.
Don't make this harder. please.
[Grace] Come on. guys.
Let's keep talking about it.
[objects clattering]
[voice breaking] Sit down
and we do it differently.
[Grace screams]
[tense music playing]
[Stratt] Yeah. he's running.
-[panting]
-[music swells]
[both groaning]
No.
No. No.
Carl. I can't do it.
No!
Don't do it!
Don't do it! Don't do it.
You know who you are.
[groans. pants]
[Grace] Carl!
You're gonna do great.
[Grace wheezing]
[pensive music playing]
I'm trying to think
if there's anything I forgot.
Fuel tank fix okay. question?
Oh. yeah. yeah.
They're working great.
[Rocky] Oh. good.
Happy. happy. happy.
[chuckles softly]
[Grace] Well
My friend.
Yes. friend?
I'm not sure
what to say. so just gonna
Grace?
No one to watch you sleep.
Yeah.
[Rocky] You are very brave.
Oh. I don't know about that.
[Rocky] You are bravest human
I have ever met.
[chuckles softly]
Hey.
-Is joke.
-I know.
I only meet one human.
and is you!
I get it.
It's a good joke.
[Rocky] Good joke.
All right. Well
[solemn music playing]
Goodbye.
[Rocky] No understand word.
Means. uh. see you later.
[Rocky]
But I won't see you later.
I know.
How do you say
goodbye back home?
[Rocky] We don't.
[Grace] Hmm.
[Rocky] We do this.
[chittering]
[enthralling music swells]
[music ends]
[pensive music playing]
[Mary] Journey to Earth
will take 4 years.
2 months and 11 days.
[music fades slowly]
[Latin folk song playing]
[students chanting] Lava! Lava!
Lava!
[breathes deeply]
[alarm blaring]
[Mary] Contaminant detected.
Contaminant detected.
[hissing]
[tense music playing]
[Grace] There's a leak.
The problem is the xenonite.
The Taumoeba
can get through it.
Probably 'cause we bred it
in the xenonite breeder tanks.
it evolved to escape it.
I was able to stop it
before it ate all the
Astrophage on the ship.
Rocky's ship
is built of xenonite.
The Taumoeba will already
be in his fuel lines.
And he won't be able
to find the leak
because the leak
is the ship itself.
He'll be without any fuel.
Stranded.
His life support systems
will fail.
And if that doesn't kill him.
the radiation sickness will.
He's looking at a long
slow
painful death
alone.
I can't do both.
I can go home
or I can save Rocky.
I've sent you detailed logs
of all of our findings.
And enough Taumoeba for you
to start
your very own Taumoeba farm.
At least I never have
to hear you say.
"I told you so."
Even though you were right.
[folk rock song playing]
[song ends]
[intriguing music playing]
[inaudible] Rocky!
[inaudible] Hey!
[thuds reverberate]
[inaudible] Come on. Rock!
[pleasant music playing]
[music swells]
[Rocky chittering]
[chittering]
I'm here. buddy.
[music crescendoes]
[Grace] Earth. Rocky.
Rocky. Earth.
Hello. Earth. I am Rocky.
I am Rocky from Erid.
I am not Rocky from movie.
No. no. no. no.
[Grace]
I'm pretty sure they know that.
I've left you detailed logs
of all of our findings
and I threw in a little
something else just for fun.
Hopefully it all makes sense.
And if not
You're smart.
You'll figure it out.
This is
Dr. Captain Ryland Grace
reporting from the Hail Mary.
As the Eridians say
[upbeat rock music playing]
Let's begin.
[music ends]
[alarm ringing]
[classic rock song playing]
[toothbrush buzzing]
Good morning. Armando.
[whirring]
You shouldn't have.
[knock on door]
[knocking intensifies]
That's a noogie.
I'm coming!
[knocking rapidly]
[waves splashing]
Why you always
gotta be so early?
Yeah. I know.
and I ignored you.
Yeah. Okay.
Why? I thought
this was a safe neighborhood.
Okay. It's just.
Armando likes the fresh air.
[upbeat music playing]
[rumbling]
Can we talk about the water
temperature a little bit?
It's amazing.
Just that
you've done it at all.
Very cold.
And. before. it was boiling.
Is there an in between?
Please tell
the biodome illumination team
that it's perfect now.
Oh. no. this is
You know
I'm a sucker for the fog.
Yeah. pal.
Can I think about it?
[upbeat music continues]
Good morning. class.
Okay.
Everyone take their seats.
Let's wake up.
Who can tell me
the speed of light?
[students chittering]
[music ends]
[gospel song playing]
[song fades]
[ethereal chorus vocalizing]
[music fades slowly]